Hello and welcome.
In this video,
we'll be covering
evaluation metrics for
classifiers. Let's get started.
Evaluation metrics explain
the performance of a model.
Let's talk more about the
model evaluation metrics
that are used for
classification.
Imagine that we have
an historical dataset
which shows the customer churn
for a telecommunication company.
We have trained the model,
and now we want to calculate
its accuracy using the test set.
We pass the test
set to our model,
and we find the
predicted labels.
Now the question is, how
accurate is this model?
Basically, we compare
the actual values
in the test set with
the values predicted
by the model
to calculate the
accuracy of the model.
Evaluation metrics
provide a key role in
the development of
a model as they provide insight
to areas that might
require improvement.
There are different model
evaluation metrics,
but we just talk about
three of them here,
specifically, Jaccard index,
F1 score, and log loss.
Let's first look at one of
the simplest accuracy
measurements,
the Jaccard index,
also known as the Jaccard
similarity coefficient.
Let's say y shows the true
labels of the churn dataset,
and y-hat shows the predicted
values by our classifier.
Then we can define
Jaccard as the size of
the intersection
divided by the size of
the union of two label sets.
For example, for a
test set of size
10 with eight correct predictions
or eight intersections,
the accuracy by the Jaccard
index would be 0.66.
If the entire set of
predicted labels for
a sample strictly matches
with the true set of labels,
then the subset accuracy is 1.0,
otherwise, it is 0.0.
Another way of looking
at accuracy of
classifiers is to look
at a confusion matrix.
For example, let's
assume that our
test set has only 40 rows.
This matrix shows the corrected
and wrong predictions
in comparison with
the actual labels.
Each confusion matrix row shows
the actual true labels
in the test set,
and the columns show the
predicted labels by classifier.
Let's look at the first row.
The first row is for customers
whose actual churn value
in the test set is one.
As you can calculate,
out of 40 customers,
the churn value of
15 of them is one,
and out of these 15,
the classifier correctly
predicted six of them as one,
and nine of them as zero.
This means that
for six customers,
the actual churn value
was one in the test set,
and the classifier also correctly
predicted those as one.
However, while the actual label
of nine customers was one,
the classifier predicted
those as zero,
which is not very good.
We can consider this as
an error of the model
for the first row.
What about the customers
with a churn value 0?
Let's look at the second row.
It looks like there were
25 customers whose
churn value was zero.
The classifier correctly
predicted 24 of them as
zero and one of them
wrongly predicted as one,
so it has done a good job in
predicting the customers
with a churn value of zero.
A good thing about the confusion
matrix is that it shows
the model's ability to correctly
predict or separate the classes.
In the specific case of
a binary classifier
such as this example,
we can interpret these numbers
as the count of true positives,
false negatives, true
negatives, and false positives.
Based on the count
of each section,
we can calculate the precision
and recall of each label.
Precision is a measure of
the accuracy provided that
a class label has
been predicted.
It is defined by
precision equals
true positive divided by
true positive plus
false positive.
Recall is the true
positive rate.
It is defined as
recall equals true
positive divided by true
positive plus false negative.
We can calculate the precision
and recall of each class.
Now we're in the position to
calculate the F1 scores for
each label based on
the precision and
recall of that label.
The F1 score is
the harmonic average of
the precision and recall,
where an F1 score reaches
its best value at one,
which represents perfect
precision and recall,
and its worst at zero.
It is a good way to show
that a classifier has
a good value for both
recall and precision.
It is defined using
the F1 score equation.
For example, the F1
score for Class 0,
ie churn equals zero,
is 0.83, and the F1
score for Class 1,
ie churn equals one, is 0.55.
Finally, we can tell the
average accuracy for
this classifier is the average
of the F1 score for both labels,
which is 0.69 in our case.
Please notice that both
Jaccard and F1 score
can be used for multiclass
classifiers as well,
which is out of scope
for this course.
Now, let's look at another
accuracy metric for classifiers.
Sometimes the output
of a classifier is
the probability of a class
label instead of the label.
For example, in
logistic regression,
the output can be the
probability of customer churn,
ie yes, or equals to one.
This probability is a value
between zero and one.
Logarithmic loss, also
known as log loss,
measures the performance
of a classifier where
the predicted output is
a probability value
between zero and one.
For example, predicting
a probability of
0.13 when the actual label
is one would be bad,
and would result in
a high log loss.
We can calculate
the log loss for
each row using the
log loss equation,
which measures how far
each prediction is
from the actual label.
Then we calculate
the average log loss
across all rows of the test set.
It is obvious that
ideal classifiers
have progressively smaller
values of log loss,
so the classifier with
the lower log loss has
better accuracy.
Thanks for watching.